{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldItalicMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 Menlo-Regular;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red27\green31\blue34;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c14118\c16078\c18039;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww21020\viewh19400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri-1440\sl288\slmult1\partightenfactor0

\f0\i\b\fs24 \cf0 Linux (and mostly Mac OS X) Cheat Sheet\

\f1\i0\b0 \
When turning on, at the warning prompt:\

\f2\b CTRL-D 
\f1\b0 for Chrome, 
\f2\b CTRL-L
\f1\b0  for Linux\
\

\f2\b Basic Shell Commands
\f1\b0 \

\f2\b cd
\f1\b0     change directory\

\f2\b cd ~
\f1\b0    change to your main home directory\

\f2\b cd ~/Documents/
\f1\b0   change into your home documents directory\

\f2\b cd ../
\f1\b0    the \'91../\'92 goes back a directory from the current location\
\

\f2\b ls
\f1\b0   list contents of current directory\

\f2\b ls -al
\f1\b0   a command followed by a \'91-\'92 and one ore more letters accesses optional abilities of the command. In this case, this will list contents of the directory, including hidden files and additional info.\
\

\f2\b mkdir
\f1\b0    make new directory. Follow mkdir with the name you want for the directory (ex: mkdir mynewfolder)\
\

\f2\b touch
\f1\b0    create new file. follow touch with the name of the new file (ex: touch index.html)\
\

\f2\b rm
\f1\b0    remove file or directory. Follow the command with a \'91r\'92 flag to remove directories and all files within. This is immediate and irreversible so make sure you check  before running! (ex: rm myfile, rm -r myfolder) \
\

\f2\b cp
\f1\b0   copy file. cp /path/to/filetocopy  /path/to/new/location/newfilename\
\

\f2\b mv
\f1\b0   move file. mv /path/to/filetocopy  /path/to/new/location/newfilename\
\

\f2\b apt install
\f1\b0   on Ubuntu Linux, use the apt install to install new software from the Ubuntu repository. (ex: apt install frozen-bubble will install the game Frozen Bubble on your machine)\
\

\f2\b apt remove
\f1\b0   if you no longer want a particular piece of software, use the apt remove command. (ex: apt remove frozen-bubble will remove the game)\
\

\f2\b sudo
\f1\b0   sudo is used when you need to do something that requires admin privileges. This often comes up when installing or removing, so oftentimes you weill need to enter: sudo apt install <application>. Using sudo requires you to know an administrator password. On these laptops, the admininstrator name and password is \'91
\f2\b chrx
\f1\b0 \'92.\
\

\f2\b Other commands you may want
\f1\b0 \

\f2\b nano
\f1\b0     nano is a simple command line text editor to allow making edits to a text file without needing to open it n something like Atom. (ex: nano filename)\
\

\f2\b atom
\f1\b0   I have installed the atom text editor on all the systems. You can just open it from the \'91Development\'92 section in the start up menu, but you can also open a file (or more usefully  a folder of files) from the command line using the \'91atom\'92 command\

\f2\b python
\f1\b0    this will open the system default python shell. Use python3.7 instead to open into the most recent version of python.\

\f2\b node
\f1\b0   this will open the node shell. Node is a modern implementation of javascript.\
http-server   run this command in a directory with an index.html file to serve the website. Great for developing websites locally!\

\f2\b jupyter notebook
\f1\b0    run this command to start Jupyter, a local-web-based application that allows for interactive shell access and saved sessions. \
\

\f2\b Installed Applications you may need (Some are specific to Linux)
\f1\b0 \
\

\f2\b Atom
\f1\b0   A good text editor you can write code in (regardless of language)\
\

\f2\b Google Chrome
\f1\b0   Chrome has been added to each machine. The built-in Chromium browser is great too, but you may want to use Chrome developer tools if you are doing web development.\
\

\f2\b Gimp
\f1\b0    The unfortunately-named graphics image manipulation program. Think photoshop, but free.\
\

\f2\b MyPaint
\f1\b0    Like gimp, a raster image program, but pretty intuitive and fun.\
\

\f2\b Inkscape
\f1\b0    A vector drawing program to create icons, logos, game characters, etc. Think Illustrator, but free.\
\

\f2\b Scribus
\f1\b0    A layout design program, for building documentation or free-form image and text layout. Think InDesign, but free.\
\

\f2\b LibreOffice
\f1\b0   A full office suite in the event you need to write a letter, calculate a spreadsheet, or make a presentation. Think Microsoft Office, but free.\
\

\f2\b Kodi
\f1\b0   Load up some music to play while you create! (But not at school of course!)\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
https://github.com/eoco/hilldalebotAdmin.git\
https://github.com/eoco/web-components-work.git
\f1 \cf0 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
}